clarify that QUIC is not directly in scope (#460)
yaronf/I-D: BCP195bis/draft-ietf-uta-rfc7525bis.md

# Introduction

> Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) are used to protect data exchanged over a wide variety of application protocols, including HTTP {{HTTP1.1}} {{HTTP2}}, IMAP {{?RFC9051}}, POP {{?STD53}}, SIP {{?RFC3261}}, SMTP {{?RFC5321}}, and XMPP {{?RFC6120}}.  Such protocols use both the TLS or DTLS handshake protocol and the TLS or DTLS record layer.  Although the TLS handshake protocol can also be used with different record layers to define secure transport protocols - the most prominent example is QUIC {{?RFC9000}} - such transport protocols are not directly in scope for this document; nevertheless, many of the recommendations here might apply insofar as such protocols use the TLS handshake protocol.  Over the years leading to 2015, the industry had witnessed serious attacks on TLS and DTLS, including attacks on the most commonly used cipher suites and their modes of operation.  For instance, both the AES-CBC {{?RFC3602}} and RC4 {{!RFC7465}} encryption algorithms, which together were once the most widely deployed ciphers, were attacked in the context of TLS.  Detailed information about the attacks known prior to 2015 is provided in a companion document ({{?RFC7457}}) to the previous version of this specification, which will help the reader understand the rationale behind the recommendations provided here. That document has not been updated in concert with this one; instead, newer attacks are described in this document, as are mitigations for those attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) are used to protect data exchanged over a wide variety of application protocols, including HTTP {{HTTP1.1}} {{HTTP2}}, IMAP {{?RFC9051}}, POP {{?STD53}}, SIP {{?RFC3261}}, SMTP {{?RFC5321}}, and XMPP {{?RFC6120}}.  Such protocols use both the TLS or DTLS handshake protocol and the TLS or DTLS record layer.  Although the TLS handshake protocol can also be used with different record layers to define secure transport protocols - the most prominent example is QUIC {{?RFC9000}} - such transport protocols are not directly in scope for this document; nevertheless, many of the recommendations here might apply insofar as such protocols use the TLS handshake protocol.

Over the years leading to 2015, the industry had witnessed serious attacks on TLS and DTLS, including attacks on the most commonly used cipher suites and their modes of operation.  For instance, both the AES-CBC {{?RFC3602}} and RC4 {{!RFC7465}} encryption algorithms, which together were once the most widely deployed ciphers, were attacked in the context of TLS.  Detailed information about the attacks known prior to 2015 is provided in a companion document ({{?RFC7457}}) to the previous version of this specification, which will help the reader understand the rationale behind the recommendations provided here. That document has not been updated in concert with this one; instead, newer attacks are described in this document, as are mitigations for those attacks.
```

Added a para break.

  widespread deployment on constrained devices that lack support for
  the necessary algorithms).

> Although many of the recommendations provided here might also apply to QUIC insofar 
> it uses the TLS 1.3 handshake protocol, QUIC and other such secure transport protocols 
> are not the primary focus of this document. For QUIC specifically, readers are 
> referred to {{Section 9.2 of ?RFC9001}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although many of the recommendations provided here might also apply to QUIC insofar 
it uses the TLS 1.3 handshake protocol, QUIC and other such secure transport protocols 
are out of scope of this document. For QUIC specifically, readers are 
referred to {{Section 9.2 of ?RFC9001}}.
```

"Out of scope" is a lot clearer and leaves no room for too wide interpretations of the BCP's applicability.
